[THEME MUSIC]
Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
Did you know that there's
a new science emerging that
is changing the
traditional understanding
of health and healing.
There's research currently being
done focusing on experiments,
which are quantifying
the effects
of energy using light frequency
coming from human beings.
Joining me today
to help us explore
the power of
reconnective healing
is internationally
recognized healer Eric Pearl.
Not only has Eric spoken
by invitation at the United
Nations, presented to a full
house at Madison Square Garden,
he experienced an overnight
shift in his healing abilities
that science calls
reconnective healing
and he's here to
share it with us.
Thanks for joining
me today, Eric.
Thank you for having me.
So tell us a little bit about
what reconnective healing is.
Reconnective healing is a way
of accessing a level of healing
that allows us to reconnect
with our original fullness,
the essence of who and
what we are so we no
longer have to learn
techniques or approaches of how
to do healing.
Instead we actually
become the healing
and therefore inspire
the healing with others.
It's sort of-- an analogy
you could use would be is,
if you take a lit
candle to light
another candle to
light another candle,
the flame doesn't
do a technique.
The flame doesn't follow steps.
The flame doesn't cower in
fear and protect itself.
It doesn't get weaker.
If anything, it glows more
brightly and by doing so it's
steps into its own fullness,
its essence, its beauty,
its perfection who and what it
is and by being in that space,
it inspires the next
candle to ignite
and the next and the next.
This allows us to stop
doing the techniques
and trying to do the
healings, but to instead,
become the healing
and therefore inspire
the healings within everyone
with whom we interact.
So reconnective healing isn't
something that's outside of us
or something that
comes from the divine.
It's something that's all
around us all the time?
It's inside of us.
It does come from the divine,
call it God, call it love,
call it the intelligence
of the universe.
Pick whatever word you want.
It is us accessing
more fully that field,
that field that, well, I like
to call the field that refused
to die because it used to
be called the etheric field
and in the late
1800s or so, science
was very horrified with
who they referred to
as otherwise seemingly
intelligent adults
believing in invisible fields.
So science did what
science does best
is that it organized itself and
went and disproved the field.
Unfortunately for
science, the field
didn't realize it
had been disproven,
so in the early
1920s, it came back.
Science reorganized,
disproved it a second time.
The field came back
even more clearly
and strongly, so strongly that
science today now uses it.
So to save face, they've changed
the name from the etheric field
to zero point field,
but everyone just calls
it the field and they wink.
The field.
So what does it do?
Does it help heal pain?
Is it emotional
pain, physical pain?
What does it do?
Reconnective healing?
Yes.
It helps allow us to
return to state a balance
and when we return to
this state of balance,
the imbalances simply
vibrate out of the picture.
Does it take you back to
your original blueprint?
I mean, what exactly
does that look like?
It allows us to return to our
natural vibration of light.
Energy healing helped.
Energy healing techniques
helped because they infused us
with more energy,
but energy is only
part of the healing spectrum.
The healing spectrum is
energy, light, and information
and today we're accessing
levels of light and information
that have not been seen
here on the planet before.
And light plays a very
fascinating role in healing.
For example, we know today
from the work of Dr. Fritz Popp
in Germany and others
that each of our cells
emits a specific level of DNA.
I'm sorry.
The DNA in each
of our cells emits
a specific level of light.
Light.
As our health is diminishing,
that light is dimming.
As our health is coming back up,
that light is coming back up.
Now what's interesting about
the role of light in the healing
spectrum of energy,
light, and information
is that it serves as a reminder.
As we interact,
for instance, as I
let you feel this in
our last interview,
part of what you were
feeling was the light
and it was serving
as a reminder to you
of your natural light vibration.
Now, what's interesting
about that requires that we
understand it's a
complicated-sounding word,
which isn't really
complicated at all.
The word is entropy.
Entropy is the basic
tendency for things to age,
for things to break
down, for things
to degenerate or fall apart.
Mechanical equipment
falls apart,
wears down after a while.
This wooden table will become--
It ages.
--splinters, will
become eventually dust.
Speed freaks get older looking
faster from all the speed.
Speed is what increases entropy.
The more the speed, the more
the degeneration, the more the
aging, the more the entropy.
The faster the breakdown.
Right.
However, what Dr. William
Tiller, professor emeritus
of Stanford University
has discovered
and one of the things he's
very famous for besides having
authored about a dozen books
and around 350 scientifically
published peer-reviewed
papers, is he's
known for something that,
again, sounds complicated.
It's called the Tiller-Einstein
Model of Negative Entropy.
That sounds complicated.
It's really simple.
Tiller means Dr. William Tiller,
Einstein means Albert Einstein,
model means, well,
hey, it's a model,
and negative entropy means
the opposite of entropy.
So the Tiller-Einstein
Model of Negative Entropy
is known to have
discovered that once we
reach the speed of light,
entropy reverses itself.
Degeneration becomes
regeneration.
Disorganization
becomes reorganization.
Dis-ease becomes
healing or ease.
And so as we interact
with this light vibration,
it almost serves as a reminder
of who the truth of each
and every one of us
is, of what the truth
of each and every one of us is.
And it's as if subliminally,
a voice comes along and says,
hey, I remember this.
This is me vibrating as truth.
This is me vibrating as light.
-Right.
I think I'll do it again.
And as that person returns
to the natural vibration
of their light, anything
denser than that light, which
tends to include pretty much
most of our health challenges
has pretty much nothing
left to hold onto.
So if appropriate, for that
person on their life course,
as appropriate for that
that health challenge, that
density simply falls away.
And if we get nothing else
out of this entire interview,
let's try and take home
these next two sentences.
One, healing is just that
simple, and two, anything more
complicated than
that-- crystals,
pendulums, pendants,
protections, rituals,
drops under the tongue, anything
more complicated than that is
designed to sell us something.
Are you saying
that's not healing?
What I'm saying is for
us to attain our highest
level with true
healing, we can't be
looking outside of ourselves.
We will attain steps,
training wheels, approaches.
I mean, you could
give me steps, you
could say, step
halfway, step halfway
again, step halfway again.
And the truth is,
I'm getting closer.
Are these all wonderful things?
Do they help us?
Yes, absolutely.
But once we master the
bicycle with training wheels,
do you really want to add a
second and third and fourth set
of training wheels?
Well, I mean, one could say
that crystals and Reiki are
light frequencies slowed down--
Yes, they are.
--or sped up.
Yes, they are
subsets of energy,
energy being a subset of
energy, light, and information.
They have been wonderful.
Do we want to stay there?
Do we want to stay there or
are we here to become more?
Can we step into becoming more?
Is our life about
remaining in the same space
or is our life about
continual evolution,
stepping more and more into the
light of essence and essence
of who we are.
When we are willing-- and
that's a keyword-- and able,
but it has to do
with being willing,
to stop looking outside
of us for the answer,
then we can turn around
and look back inside.
For example, and I
use Reiki generically,
so we're not picking
on Reiki specifically--
Any healing modality.
--as any energy
healing modality,
but we use Reiki as an
example because we've spoken
about it so far.
There are approximately,
I think last I heard,
32 different forms of Reiki.
Hard to find the original Reiki.
Yet, then there's the school
of Usui Reiki, which claims
to be the original Reiki, yet
there are three schools of Usui
Reiki all arguing over
who's the original Reiki
because they each have
different sets of symbols.
And what I'm saying is,
the symbols themselves
now by utilizing
them, we are still
reaching outside of ourselves.
Let's say, for instance, we
want to study the heavens,
so what's our first approach?
A technique, maybe a telescope.
So we study and we focus
in on this part of the sky.
We see these stars.
We focus in on this
part, we see those.
We focus in on that
And we get to learn
subsets of the energies
of the field of the sky,
of stars, of the heavens.
There's the
beautiful Reiki star.
There's the perfect Qigong star.
There's this star.
There's that star.
But at a certain point
in time, our essence
wants to see the whole picture
and the only way we can do
that is by placing the telescope
down, taking what we've learned
and saying, now, how does
this all fit into one?
It's like as we refer to
mastering the bicycle it's
good to master the bicycle
with training wheels,
but now to truly master it, how
do we see the bigger picture?
How can we step out of it?
Does it come from adding
a second and a third step
of training wheels?
Look at our religions.
-Modalities, yeah.
-Right.
I view our religions
as different windows
out into the universe.
We oftentimes spend our entire
life looking out of one window,
maybe it shows a
church or a synagogue
or a mosque or a river, a
tree, a mountain, a stream.
Our families look out the same
window we have looked out of.
Then we meet someone who
claims that their window shows
something else
and the frightened
part of our personality as
Gary Zukav would refer to it
or the ego, doesn't
want to be wrong,
doesn't want our
family to be wrong.
So we argue over who's right.
We have wars and
so forth over that.
Yes.
-Right.
Now, eventually,
maybe we meet someone
who is not so threatening
who we truly appreciate.
They share with us what
they see from their window
and we become safe
enough in their presence
to allow ourselves to
look out of their window
and we see there's more.
We start to recognize
now that the windows are
various different facets
to a diamond, the more
the facets, the more the shine,
the more the beauty of diamond.
But even if we look out
of every single window,
we'll never see
the whole picture
because each windows
limited by the window
frame and each window frame
is limited by the wall
that supports the frame.
So only once we're willing
to all join hands, go up
on the roof and have
a party can we see
360 degrees in all directions.
Now, who is the person who
limits their view even up
at that party?
The person who comes up carrying
part of their window frame.
They're part of
their belief systems,
part of their conditioning.
The part of the focusing in.
The first gift that many people
have already been accessing
here when we just had
energy was to de-focus,
to release the
techniques, to practice
without some of the symbols,
without some of the steps.
They were stepping into becoming
more of the energy themselves.
Now that we're able to move
beyond that energy, that energy
field, as we step into this,
we move beyond that energy
into the light and
the information.
The moment we go
back to technique
is the moment we start to
focus in on portions again.
It's the moment we join
the party on the roof
with part of our window frame.
So basically what you're
saying is that we are all light
and the frequency
that we heal in
is using that light
frequency to heal us,
essentially, is
what you're saying.
-Yes.
-OK.
That's what
reconnective healing is.
Yes.
And we cannot give a
gift that we're unwilling
to accept or receive ourselves.
Everything, every
choice we make in life
either comes from
fear, lack, limitation,
the illusion of
separation or darkness
or from love, prosperity,
oneness, unity, and abundance.
We can't stand in fear
and accept or provide
gifts that reside in love.
We can't be protecting ourselves
in this flame and that flame
and standing in fear, facilitate
healings that reside in love.
We can't stand in
lack and limitation
using pendulums to protect
us from negative energies
and other things to add
us more to make us more
and then stand in
being in 100% abundance
of providing the healings.
At some point or other,
we are being looked
upon by the universe to say,
can we accept without judgment
where we had been.
Say, weren't these
training wheels wonderful?
They've done their job now.
We can even dip them in gold
and hang them up as a memory.
Can we bless them, thank
them, carry them with us
one step at a time,
carry our fears with us
one step at a time
into the light
and allow the light to do
what light does best, which
is to show us that
the darkness never
existed in the first place.
Well, that's what
connective healing
basically connects us to.
Now, this is-- I wouldn't
say it's definitely
not a technique,
but it is a healing
that you teach
people in seminars,
in rooms, and so forth.
How is it that you
teach people what is
originally their own essence?
How do you re-teach that?
It seems to have
multiple components that
are a little difficult
to comprehend, for me,
as well as anyone because our
perspectives and our languaging
come from a
four-dimensional basis.
Difficult to put into
words, these concepts.
But in the seminar rooms,
the healing, it increases.
It's been shown scientifically--
It's been shown by
research that it does.
It seems as if what
is happening is we
are interacting with something.
And once we interact with it--
-The field.
--it changes us.
We have a slide
of it, actually,
that shows that there is
an exponential increase
of energy that happens
when the healing begins.
Well, you can see that here.
When we step into a room,
it has a normal space to it.
It's normal conditioning
is one of the phrases
the researchers will use.
As we step into the reconnective
healing frequencies,
the conditioning
rises to a new level.
It raises to a new
level and then it
maintains in that new
level and matter of fact,
it maintains long after
we leave the room.
So the space itself becomes
what some researchers say
is conditioned, some researchers
will call it duplexed,
some of the researchers have
slightly different names
for it, but they say on
one level the only way
that they can bring about
that level of excess-free,
thermodynamic energy
in the room would
be to raise the room
to almost 600 degrees
Fahrenheit or approximately
300 degrees Celsius.
How is it measured, what
they're talking about in terms
of the increase in the room?
How is it measured?
I can't really
explain how they do it.
I don't know how they do it.
Dr. William Tiller has done
it with some researchers.
Dr. Constantine
Korotkov has done it
with some different
research forms.
As a matter of
fact, Dr. Korotkov
has put out a book recently
that's available on Amazon.com
and it's called of all things,
"Science Confirms Reconnective
Healing," where he's
taken some of the research
of different well-known
international researchers
and put them together and
collected them in the book.
Which is where the plant study
that you talked about where you
can actually cut the leaf and
have the reconnective healing
happen on it and the leaf
would grow without being
connected to the plant.
Not being connected to plant.
I believe that study
is in the book also.
That's amazing.
So what this does is there's
various different studies that
show the validation of
reconnective healing
and its effectiveness and
its increase in frequency
and energy and there's also
photography around it that
shows that it
actually reconnects us
to our original
state, our blueprint,
our original frequency,
our light being.
Well, there's one
slide-- I don't if you
have access to it--
where it shows the energy
field around someone.
Yes.
And here it is right here.
And you can see,
for instance, when
we work with the Russian
Olympic athletes, the picture
to the left or at
least to my left,
it says Before shows the
way the athletes' energy
field around them was
broken up or changed.
After working with
reconnective healing,
you see how they're field
came back into a fullness
of health and abundance.
This was not me doing
the reconnective healing
and this is an important thing.
It cannot be healing, cannot
be about any one person.
What happened, the
history of this,
is that we flew to Russia
to teach a group of doctors.
In two afternoons, we
taught a group of doctors
how to do this healing work.
And then on the
second afternoon,
they were measured again
and so were the Russians
Olympic athletes who
were the models that
were used for the healing work.
And this was an example of,
I believe the average change
in the athletes.
What was very interesting is
that there's a bar graph that I
would have to go by memory on,
so we might not bother to use
that one, but what
was interesting
is that everyone after
the reconnective healing
showed a dramatic increase
in their energy fields,
their bioenergy fields.
Everyone did.
Everyone except one.
Now here's what was
interesting about it.
During the time the people
were being measured,
I looked way across the program
and it was a crowded room.
I couldn't get across
the room and I couldn't
communicate with these people
anyway because they only
spoke Russian.
And I see that one doctor
had taken his athlete,
taken him to a
corner and started
trying to pull negative things
out of his energy fields
and try to increase
things and decrease things
and these are all the
things that we teach
become limitations to the work.
And I mentioned to Dr.
Korotkov, I said, you know,
this doctor across the
room is doing that.
It's going to skew our results.
It's going to alter
our results in a way
that we really
don't want them to.
And he said let the
results be the results.
I said, OK.
He came back with the result
and that was the only athlete
and the only doctor--
-Interesting.
--who had a decrease
after reconnective
healing or after that weekend.
And I said to him, well,
doesn't that ruin our data?
He says, no.
It verifies exactly what you've
been teaching all these years,
that the moment we add
fear, lack, and limitation
or we take control and try to
change the effect of something,
we move it away
from its perfection.
It's very--
- --very important right there.
-Right.
It's very difficult not to
because our techniques teach us
that we are doing the healing
and therefore, unintentionally
feeds the ego in taking credit
for something that happens
and what we're really being
offered the opportunity to rise
to, is to allow ourselves
to become as Michael
Beckwith from Agape
Church will say,
the observer and the observed,
to observe without judgment,
to witness without judgment.
And when we do that, we find
that there's actually more
that comes in the reward
of the actual result
than we could have created.
It's as if when our
people come in to us
and they want to have healings
and I tell the practitioners,
I said, don't focus
on the problem
that the reason the person
thinks that they're in there.
Focus on the
process, not the end
result, the process, not the
end result. If you're fortunate,
you'll receive the healing
that you've come in intending,
but if you're truly
fortunate, you'll
receive one you
haven't even dreamed
of that the universe has
designed specifically for you.
So when you're doing
they reconnective healing
or you're teaching the
reconnective healing,
are you intentionally imaging
light frequencies coming out
of your hand or is
this just to field
that you're constantly in?
But when you're
actually teaching it,
what is it that you teach?
How to feel it.
In the feeling, what
we're really doing is
we're listening with
a different sense.
Do you recall the
sensation you had
when I was doing this with you?
Yes, and that's interesting.
So anybody could do this?
I mean, just sitting here
and watching this right now?
Anyone can learn to do this
once they interact with it.
It seems there are multiple
levels of requirement,
I guess, that the universe
has set up hurdles for us
to overcome to access this.
Hurdle number one is to step out
of the level of ego that says,
oh, yes, there's something
new here on Earth
and I can just om it in.
Well, actually, no.
That's like saying that so
you're entitled to the ocean,
so you can go to the beach, sit
on the 24th floor in your hotel
room and om the ocean in.
Well, you can om all day and
a, the ocean is not coming,
or b, if it does,
you'd better run.
It's a tsunami.
You actually have to put in your
spiritual little bathing suit
and march across the beach
and into the water and then
and only then can you become
equally as wet with ocean water
as possible.
This seems to require that we
are willing to place ourselves
on an equivalent level with
another human being and say,
I would like to access
this through you.
I would like to learn
The ego that says I already have
it and I can do it on my own
is precisely what's
limiting that person
from ever truly accessing it.
So it seems to be
here as a reward
for us making certain
transcended moves.
You said that there are
other stages that you need
to go through in order
to access the energy,
one is moving aside the ego and
being at one with the field.
What would the other ones be?
One would be
allowing us to witness
or observed without judgment.
One is us recognizing
that we have to interact
with another human
being that we haven't
been reconnected in a dream.
Basically that's it.
Our willingness to listen,
our willingness to step out
of fear, lack, and limitation
and to step into that love,
prosperity, and abundance.
So there is a lot
of science that's
being done around
reconnective healing
and validating it
and verifying it.
Why do we need the science?
You're asking me
and I'm going to give
you the answer that
the researchers
aren't really excited with.
I don't think we need
it for any reason other
than the fact that science is
studying reconnective healing
seems to be what a
lot of people need
to remove their blinders
to be willing to look
at reconnective healing.
So the fact that it's being
studied shows that it's--
It's more important
than the results.
It's nice that this is
showing dramatic results.
I mean, there are
strong distinctions
between reconnective healing and
energy healing and many of them
show up in the research and
many of them show up clinically.
For example, the healings tend
to be fairly instantaneous.
They tend to be lifelong.
They tend to bring about
changes in light emissions
from the body, in
changes in the DNA,
in the temperatures in the
rooms on different levels
on different fields.
But does that really matter?
Do you ever intuitively
connect with somebody
in terms of psychically when
you're experiencing any type
of reconnective healing?
Does that have anything
to do with that?
Is it a different plane?
I have and people do.
I don't tend to talk about it.
I don't tend to bill
it, but I will--
Why is that?
When reconnective healing
first appeared here,
even chiropractors were having
trouble getting into hospitals.
Right.
OK.
And here I am
now, you know, I've
trained how many tens of
thousands of medical doctors
and nurses and researchers
and such how to do this work.
It does increase our
multi-dimensional awareness,
which we could take as
a natural state as I do
or as many people tend
to want to do to make
it about making them
special and say, yes,
I've become a psychic.
I've become a medical intuitive.
I hear the tones.
I, I, I me, me, me.
It's all about me and
the point is it's not.
We are stepping into 2012.
We are living in the
war-torn results of what's
been happening from
us being raised
to look at what makes
each and every one of us
different and unique.
I believe that we are here today
to rise above that and to say,
what makes us all the same.
Basically to reconnect.
To recognize that
when one child
cries in one part of the
world, a hundred children
weep in another.
When one child laughs, a
thousand laugh somewhere else,
that we are that connected.
-Yes.
That gives you a sense
of awe and responsibility
at the same time.
We are going to
take a quick break.
When we come back, we're
going to talk about how
reconnective healing
is being used
with different communities,
with children, with pets,
with all sorts of
different communities.
We will be right
back with Eric Pearl.
I'm Lisa Garr.
You're watching
"Gaiam Inspirations."
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome back to
"Gaiam Inspirations."
My guest is Eric Pearl.
We're talking about
reconnective healing,
basically reconnecting
us to the source
that we are, basically
like frequency.
So you talked
earlier about entropy
and when things breakdown,
that's the lack of connection.
So what happens if the
opposite of that happens?
What happens when we are
in that state of coherence,
when we are in that
state of reconnection?
What happens to us physically?
How does the healing begin?
Our DNA, light emissions,
all rise to an optimal level.
In that vibration of light,
anything denser or heavier
than light, as we've said,
has nothing left to hold onto,
so it pretty much falls away.
We vibrate in that
natural state.
What happens when we
interact with this-- well,
you see, the body doesn't
heal the way we were taught.
We were taught
that the body heals
through biochemical changes
and today, in medicine,
that model is pretty much dead.
We know that the body
heals through vibration,
energy, frequency, resonance,
entrainment, and light.
In other words, the
biochemical model
couldn't explain how
something could happen
in one part of your body
immediately effect something
in another part of your body.
Light waves are part
of what we accept
as that explanation today.
Our brains don't work
the way we were taught.
Remember the old
models of the brain.
You'd see a model of a brain
sitting on a stick on a desk
and there'd be circles
in different areas
and this is memory, this is
learning, this is speech.
We know now today from the work
of Dr. Karl Lashley and Karl
Pribram and others that
this information is not
sitting around in little
sequestered areas,
it's diffused
throughout the brain
and that we access
it from that field.
Now, well, let's
look at this analogy.
Computers, we all
have computers.
What's a computer?
By itself, it's a
little metal box.
It does nothing.
Put a software program
into it, you get
information from the computer--
-Systems
--then you access
information from that internet
field out there somewhere.
Upgrade the software,
better access
to the information
within, better
access to the internet field.
OK, I can understand that.
Now, what if our brains are
our hardware, what if our DNA is
our software, and what if we
are doing what five research
studies so far say
that we are doing,
which is restructuring the DNA
or what I like to say from what
we talked about in the earlier
interview, what you're doing
is reconnecting strands.
We're reconnecting the DNA.
In this interaction, when you
feel this, in essence, what
we're doing is we're
facilitating with one another
in the shared interaction
a human software upgrade
that allows for better
access for the information
within the brain and more
multi-dimensional access
of that field.
So since we go where
our attention is,
this is us standing on
the precipice of becoming
more evolved as human beings.
What happens though
when someone is in pain
and where medical science
does explain when you have
certain amino acid chain
reactions and precursors that
develop pain, serotonin,
dopamine, whatever, how do you
explain reconnective healing
where it comes to someone being
in physical pain who needs
to heal their body, whose
body needs to be healed?
Science has discovered
different parts
of what goes on in the process.
It's sort of like
taking stop photography.
You know, here's a
picture, here's a picture,
here's a picture.
What reconnective healing is
about is allowing the body
to return to that
state of balance
and within that
state of balance,
you can take stop photography.
In other words, those
things are happening,
but it doesn't heal
because of biochemicals.
The biochemical
changes are a result
of interacting
with or in training
with a more comprehensive
intelligence, the energy,
the light, the information
that allows the body to return
to a state of balance.
See the body doesn't need
anything added into it.
The body is created perfectly.
If we have chronic
headaches, it is
not because we were born with
the blood aspirin deficiency.
It means something is out
balance as an interference
with our body balancing itself.
What reconnective
healing does is
it brings the body back
into a level of vibration
where the interferences
fall away.
It doesn't address the headache.
You don't see someone because
they've got a back ache,
because they have
cancer, because they've
this, that, or the other.
You see someone because
they want to return
to a better state of balance.
It's not treatment.
It's not therapy.
It's not cures.
Those are areas for
medicine and related fields.
But can you do it on yourself?
So if you learn the
technique and you're
having pain or
experience or if you
have something
imbalanced in your body,
can you do it yourself?
Yes, you can do it
on yourself and you
don't address the symptom.
I know that this
is a tricky aspect.
It's a difficult aspect because
we are attached to our symptoms
because these are the indicators
that something is wrong
and when we try to work
to get rid of a symptom,
we don't always realize that
we're becoming result oriented.
We're not oriented
in the process.
The process is about
returning to healing.
So let's use a more
physical example.
Let's say you go to your
home, you open the front door.
Smoke is billowing out.
You feel heat, you
walk into the kitchen,
and the smoke
detector is going off.
Do you grab a scissors,
cut the wires, and sit down
and say, thank god.
I hated that noise?
Of course not,
but that's what we
do when we swallow an
aspirin, for instance,
to get rid of the symptom.
We can in the very same way
limit what we're bringing
through and it becomes
spiritual bottles of aspirin
saying I've got a
problem in my elbow.
Let me bring my
hand over my elbow.
Why do we have the
problem in the elbow?
Why is there a problem in
the kidney, for example?
It's an imbalance
somewhere in the system
and an imbalance in
the system is often
an imbalance within our fields.
Let's take a kind
of an example that's
sort of easy to understand.
We'll take it physically and
then we'll move it spiritually.
Physically let's say
there's a football player,
injures his knee on
the playing field.
So what happens?
There's swelling.
There's heat.
There's altered
function, redness.
There's pain.
What is the pain?
The pain is the knee
picking up the telephone
system calling up
to the brain saying
help me, help me, help me.
There's damage down here.
And the brain says, OK,
I've got you covered.
First thing I'm going to do
is we're going to increase
the blood flow to the knee.
We're going to wash away
the damaged tissue, which
will also bring more redness to
the area and increase the heat.
At the raised
temperature level, there
will be different
biochemical functions
to help the healing process
go on over the next few days.
They'll be temperature changes.
We'll also bring healing
nutrient fluids and swelling
and density to the
knee to protect it
so it doesn't over
move and damage itself
in it's weakened condition.
And if you push
through that, we'll
set up an outer perimeter of
pain to remind you to, hey,
knock it off.
We're going to stay
on this phone call
till the healing is complete.
We'll say thank you very much.
Goodbye.
Click.
-Very well said.
Yes.
-What is that?
Sure.
That's the intelligence,
that's the perfect intelligence
of the universe
demonstrating itself
through the innate
intelligence--
--of the body.
Right.
Now, what might not
be so intelligent
would be to take that
athlete, place them
on a physical
therapy table, take
an artificial, electrical
current such as ultrasound,
short circuit the phone call
between the knee and the brain
so the knee is hollering
help, help, help,
but the brain hears hm.
So it hangs up the phone.
We inject painkillers
and anti inflammatories
and send the guy back out in
the playing field pain free
but not healed so the knee
is continually degenerating,
but no indicator.
Now, if we can understand this,
then the next logical question
is, is the intelligence
of the universe
any less intelligent
off the body
than it is within the body?
In other words, our
energy healing techniques
tell us to come in and
look at the chakras
and if some of the chakras
are spinning clockwise
and others are counterclockwise,
we get them all
to spin in the same direction.
Look at the colors
and the energy fields
and if the blue and the green
and the red is out of position,
remove the red and re-balance
the blue and the green.
Look for the areas of
density, remove the density
so everything flows freely.
It sounds lovely, but
let's think about it.
What are we really doing?
When we step in and we start
to restructure the direction
that the chakras
are spinning in,
what makes us think that
those changes in direction
are any less intelligent than
the redirection of the blood
flow within the human body to
the injured football player?
When we step in and
rearrange the colors
in the aura system, what makes
us think those color changes?
Or if there's an area of red
that doesn't normally belong,
what makes us
think it's any less
intelligent than the red knee.
But we remove a density so
everything flows freely again,
what makes us think that
density is any less intelligent
than the swelling protecting the
knee to keep you from injuring
it when you're doing it?
In other words, what
is it that that energy
healing approach is really
announcing to the universe?
So let's hear it
in a human voice.
What that person is saying
is thanks a lot, god.
Looks like you've done
a pretty small job
with most of the
universe up until now,
but you've missed these spots.
Please allow me to
fix them for you.
By the way, here's my pink
business card with the rainbows
and the fairies.
It lists all the
various energy healing
techniques I've ever mastered.
Feel free to call on me again.
By the way, I would love to
stay and talk a little longer,
but I only have enough time to
email everyone I've ever known,
tell them what I've
just down for you,
and make it to the class
I'm teaching tonight
on how to transcend your ego.
By the way, god, you
might want to come.
There's always something
for everyone to learn.
Exactly.
Now, we are not bad people
functioning out of integrity.
We're trying.
We're not necessarily fully
consciously aware of what we're
doing and sometimes
it can be a little
discomforting to have to look.
Sometimes it's a challenge.
We have to be brave
enough to really look,
but can we recognize
that our words need to be
in integrity with our actions?
It's not enough to talk
about transcending the ego
without being willing to
look at our actions and say,
are our actions matching
the word of this.
Are we willing to rise to a
level of becoming the observer
and the observed, the
witness and the witness,
the seer and the seen, to
observe without judgment
and see where the actual
beauty of healing comes in.
It does seem incredibly
simple, but that, of course,
is your whole point is it
is simple to re-balance
to that state.
-And challenging.
Well, because it takes practice
and it shows up though when you
have reconnective kids and when
you are teaching kids how to do
this and the kids
themselves can learn
these techniques because--
Faster.
It's amazing.
For adults, the course
is like a Friday
night, Saturday, and Sunday.
For children, instead
of 2 and 1/2 days,
two 2 and 1/2 hours
because they don't come
in with the ego to overcome.
We view our kids as if
they're empty vessels
placed here on
Earth for us to fill
with everything that we know.
Well, maybe it's time
for us to view them
as empty vessels placed
here on the planet for us
to learn how to become empty
vessels ourselves once again.
The children learn
it beautifully.
We actually have a video of
this, of reconnective healing
with kids in their own voices.
Yeah.
Real kids.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
It's a way to access
healing without having
to learn any steps.
This is more than
energy healing.
Reconnective healing is a
new form of healing here
on the planet for
what the researchers
think is the very first time.
So when we help others
with their healings,
we become better ourselves.
Because this is us vibrating
at a level of light.
We're here to be the
light that inspires
the light in each
person that comes along
and the children of
the light that show us.
Yesterday 114 of our
children had a chance
to participate in the
reconnective healing program
by Dr. Eric Pearl.
We're able to tap
into our children's
natural healing ability.
We at the reconnection
know something
that a lot of the adults
aren't quite sure of
and that is, the adults tend to
view those of us who are still
kids as being
empty little things
that they need to fill with
everything that they know.
And the truth is, we're
emptying in the way of being
able to receive
everything and this
is why you will learn healing
more easily and more quickly.
What happens in the
seminars that we teach you
how to access this
broader, more comprehensive
spectrum of healing.
Well, some woman
had costochondritis.
I just touched her on her
shoulder and she felt better.
How long does the healing take?
This long.
I learned to be
one with myself.
It was like a dream almost.
ERIC: Look at how the
involuntary muscles move
around the nose and the mouth.
We're inherently healthy
and we're inherently whole.
I'm interested in
looking into it myself.
You could feel something
through your hands
when you circle your
hands around and around.
What did it feel like?
It feels like tingly
sparkles and stuff.
That we're all more
than just humans.
We can all be healers
just like Dr. Pearl.
You have this gift
to share with people.
It's one thing to hear about it,
it's another thing to feel it.
[END VIDEO]
-Beautiful.
Absolutely beautiful.
It's beautiful to see
kids where they're
so in such a pure state.
So does it take any certain
type of belief system?
It didn't with these children.
I mean, they don't
have indoctrinated
belief systems at that age.
This has nothing to do
with faith, hope, or belief.
Nothing to do with mind over
matter, hypnosis, anticipation.
When these healings
first started,
my patients were coming
in to see a chiropractor
and I thought I was one.
I mean, it's kind of hard--
-Well, you were.
--to vet a
double-blinded study.
Right.
No one was anticipating
or hoping or expecting.
And the healing
started to happen.
Interestingly enough, as word
got out about the healings,
people started coming from
halfway around the world,
not always of
their own volition.
Often they were pulled,
pushed, dragged,
or shoved, by a well-meaning
friend or relative.
They'd sit in front of me in
the room when they'd show up
and they'd say, I
want you to know
that I don't believe in it.
I think it's a pile of garbage.
I wouldn't be here if my husband
or wife didn't make me come.
And I would explain to them
because my office at that time
was still in LA, I
would say, listen,
you left whatever
country you've come from,
you've flown to Los
Angeles for a week,
taken time off from work.
Believe it or not,
actually, worse things
do happen to some people.
So why don't you just
say to yourself, maybe
it's real, maybe
isn't, but whatever
it is, it's a rare
opportunity to lie
down in the middle of
the day for 30 minutes
and rest your eyes.
So shut up and take it.
Which is what you did
when you originally
received the communication.
Yeah.
And so these people would very
often receive some extremely
dramatic healings.
If anyone didn't
receive a healing,
it tended not to be the
person who didn't believe in.
It tended more to be the person
who believed in it too much,
the person came in
saying, I know this works.
It has to work.
I have high expectations.
Yes, I've got every crystal
over the right chakra
in my body.
I'm sleeping with all the proper
healing books under my pillow.
I'm only turning in clockwise
circles from full moon
to full moon and this
month is the blue moon.
And it's going to fix
all of my problems.
Right.
They were so attached to needing
that healing that attachment
became the constriction,
became the glass
ceiling or the limitation.
The person who didn't believe
in it in the first place,
well, it's sort of hard
to attach to something
if you don't believe it exists.
This is something that as we've
talked about, as we've seen
in the research, simply is.
It's as if I place this glass
of water on to the table,
the table will catch
the water and I
can pretty much promise
you that the water
does not believe in the table.
Well, what about
if this really were
completely effective,
how come everyone
isn't being healed from it?
Well, what's
completely effective?
What do you mean by
You tell me what
you mean then I'll
tell you what I think you mean.
I guess result producing.
That's right.
What if this didn't bring-- if
this is completely effective,
what you're really
asking is, does this
bring about the
physical results that we
in our limited conscious,
human, educated mind
think should come about.
No, it doesn't.
No, it doesn't always.
We really don't understand
the mind of God.
A perfect example,
one from the book
was that a woman
drove 3,000 miles
across the country to see
me from the east coast to LA
at the time.
She had had Bell's palsy.
It affected one
side of her face.
All of her muscles had drooped.
The Bell's palsy went away,
but the side of her face
was sensitive for
years afterwards
to any little light breeze.
She flew in to have that change.
I did a healing with her.
I did two of them.
It didn't go away.
We could say she
didn't have a healing.
What she didn't tell me about
until afterwards was when
she was a young girl,
maybe 9, 10, 11,
and she was at
this point in time
in her upper 40s towards
50, she had an infection
and lost the hearing in one ear.
All of her life, she was
without the hearing in that ear.
She didn't expect to heal.
She didn't tell me about it.
Her hearing returned.
Did she have a healing?
Now, if she had never
shared that with me
and if I were attached
to the result,
then I would think that
woman didn't have a healing.
But if we step back three
feet or three feet again
and we see the larger
picture, we see a healing.
There's a film called
"The Living Matrix."
In "The Living Matrix,"
in a condensed form,
it opens up with the
story of the Greek boy who
was unable to walk or talk, use
his hand, was carried up to me,
metal braces on his legs.
It was after an event, the
place was about to close,
they'd asked if
I'd do a healing.
I started to do a healing.
Four minutes into it, they
told us we had to leave.
The place was closing.
The little boy, for the
first time in his life,
got up without the braces,
walked down the stairs,
ascended the full staircase
of this miniature coliseum
in Greece, not once but twice.
Later on that week
was brought to see me.
He said, look what I can do.
I can stand on one leg and
spin in a complete circle.
He said, I can run up and down
the hallway, he showed me.
I can open my right hand
and hold my own cup of water
and I can hug my parents with
both arms just like a big boy.
And at that moment
it became clear.
For the first time in his life,
he was able to speak clearly
and everyone could
understand him.
We could stop there
and say, wow, what
a wonderful physical healing.
Now, what's interesting is, in
the film "The Living Matrix,"
you'll see this boy being
interviewed and his mother.
You won't see his father.
We were going to do this
interview, scheduled
it about four different times.
We were going to fly
to Greece to do it.
The father kept canceling,
taking his permission back.
He didn't want
anything to do with it.
Finally when he gave
us permission, again,
we flew over.
The father left
the house, wouldn't
come back till the
filming was done,
didn't want any parts of it.
When we had the premiere
for the film in London,
we invited the
family out thinking
only the mother and child would
come, but the father came.
Now, by the way,
when the mother was
about to take the seminar
immediately finding
this healing, we
said why don't you
bring little Demetrius, the
boy, and share it with everyone
next weekend at the seminar.
And she said the
strangest thing.
She said, no.
I don't want people
to get a false hope.
I didn't give it much thought.
I thought it was a strange
response, but she's the mother.
Let it go.
A year later, in
the green room right
before the premiere of the
film then I meet the father.
The father said to me,
I didn't want Demetrius
to do this film
because I didn't want
to believe he had a healing.
But he did have a healing.
He runs and walks and plays
and speaks normally now.
He runs all the time because
he didn't get a chance
to before with his friends.
He's only five years old.
But I didn't want to
believe that he had healing
because if I had to believe
that he had a healing,
I would have to live with the
fear of waking up every morning
and one morning
it could be gone.
And then I suddenly realized
what the mother meant.
I found out that family almost
divorced over that film.
Now, no family divorces
over one issue.
Obviously, there
were other issues.
They almost divorced
over that film.
The mother is now a
practitioner and the family
is the strongest
unit it's ever been
and this has been for years.
Who had the healing?
Did that little boy
have a physical haling?
That entire family
had a healing.
We looked at a symptom at an
anticipated result thinking
we understand the mind
of God and that we
see the whole picture and that
determines in our mind's eye
whether or not that
person has a healing.
Well, let me tell
you, the true gift
of who receives
the healing is us,
being so privileged and honored
as being able to witness
the healings and then seeing
if we can challenge ourselves
to step back and start
to see the healing
resonate in the larger
and larger picture.
So let go of our expectations,
let go of the labels
that we want to put on
things, and let us be
at the effect of the healing.
When I do this work-- hold
your hand out for me-- I step in
and I allow myself to feel.
Where's my attention?
My focus is not
on the end result.
I'm not saying will this heal?
Will that heal?
Will the other heal?
My focus is on
what am I feeling.
What am I seeing?
Am I feeling sensations?
Am I seeing response?
When I'm doing this, where
am I keeping my attention?
I'm allowing myself
to recognize that I
have one role as a healer.
That role is to open a door.
It is the role of
the other person
to have the courage to choose
to walk through that door.
My role is to open the
door, not with my right hand
and push them through with my
left hand to get the result
that I think that they need.
My role is to open the door
and allow them to walk through.
If you take your friend and drop
them off at a shopping center
and wait in the car,
your responsibility
is not what they come out of
that shopping center with.
Well, as healers, we feel
responsible for the result.
We open the door with one hand.
We push them through
with the other hand.
We cheat them--
And us.
--out of stepping into their
own healing and us out of being
able to witness that and the
more that we allow ourselves
to witness, then the
more we step into a state
of knowingness and mastery, then
the more we are able to better
able open the door and the
more and better able people
are to walk through that door.
In our seeing lies
our knowingness.
And now our knowingness
lies our ability
to see more and in the
two lies our mastery.
This is our challenge.
You must know that
you are a master.
You must see that
And in the seeing
and the knowingness,
we allow other people to
step up into their own level
of healing.
I believe we are standing on
the precipice of human evolution
here.
This is not about the healings.
The physical healings
are this big.
It's like walking past a
Mrs. Fields cookie shop
and you smell the white
chocolate macadamia nuts.
It grabs you by the nose,
pulls you into the store,
then you find there's
something else.
The physical healing
is what draws us in,
but I believe that
what's happening
is that we are restructuring
and we're reconnecting the DNA.
We are allowing
ourselves to become
more multidimensionally aware.
And since we go where
our attention is,
we are stepping in
to becoming more
multi-dimensional human beings.
This is not about
just physical healing,
this is about our
reconnection as humanity.
And it's not an accident that
it's come at this time where
there is such an intentionality
on the focus of time
speeding up, things
are shifting,
the shifts that are occurring.
So do you believe that this
has come in at this time
specifically?
I do.
You said the evolution.
But I want to be careful
that we don't think
of this as being a 2012
thing because there's
more coming after 2012.
On December 21, we're not going
to lift up the bed sheets,
look underneath and
scream because we're
suddenly invisible.
We might scream
for another reason.
We'll save that for
another interview.
Another show.
Right.
But we will look back in
3 years, 6 years, 12 years
and say look at the
evolution of human kind.
But by then, we will be
moving into our next level
of evolution.
We will be learning
to remove more
and more of the
training wheels and step
into becoming the healing.
So we no longer need
to do the healing
and as we become the healing,
we become our own evolution.
We become the reminder
of others light vibration
and they step in to our
inch of their evolution.
It's like when you
speak to someone who's
had a life after
death experience
and they often say as they're
moving towards the light,
they see people they've
known from this lifetime
and every life time, and
they're all indicating
the way to the light.
None of them are jumping out
in a motorcycle with sidecar
saying, hop in kiddo.
I'll take you.
You still have to go
the last 10 yards.
What I believe, what I
really, truly believe
is that humanity has come before
us that is coming to where we
are today and is continuing on
and that we are being observed
right now by the universe.
They're simply making
their presence known
to support us in making the last
10 yards into our next level
of evolution.
-That makes perfect sense.
It makes absolute sense
because this, I believe,
is the future of healing.
This is here now, but this
is the integrative approach.
This is self responsibility.
This is empowering healing.
This is what I believe
is the future of healing.
I don't even like
the word healing.
It makes it sound as if we have
to get better from something.
Truly, to me,
healing is evolution.
Very well said.
Absolutely.
That's a great way
to wrap this up too.
Healing is evolution.
-Ours.
Thank you.
Our evolution.
Thank you Eric Pearl.
-Thank you so much.
Thank you so much
for your wisdom
and for your example to us
of what real medicine is.
It's wonderful.
Well, thank you
again and if you want
to watch a replay of my
interview with Eric Pearl
or share it with your
friends, go to GaiamTV.com.
There's a lot more
thought-provoking interviews
there, inspirational
films, so much more.
So sign up for a free
trial on GaiamTV.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[THEME MUSIC]